DADDY CLAY Hey, welcome back to a very special
episode of The Lab. I'm Daddy Clay. Daddy
Brad is away on paternity leave. So, if your
wife is expecting, it's a good time for you
to start participating in the domestic chores.
And a great one that you can pick up is doing
a little bit of grocery shopping. But what
kind of healthy food items should you be picking
out for your expecting wife? We've come here
to Whole Foods in Austin to get a few ideas.
DADDY CLAY So I'm here with Mary Olivar, who's
the healthy eating specialist here at Whole
Foods in Austin. And she's gonna give us some
tips on how to fill up a healthy grocery cart
for a pregnant mom.
DADDY CLAY Okay Mary, what's the first thing
that's going in this cart?
MARY OLIVAR My personal favorite is kale.
The dark leafy greens are nutrient powerhouses.
Not only do they have that super important
folic acid, but they also have calcium - easy
to absorb, non-dairy form, iron, fiber, vitamin
A, vitamin C, and lots of other super supportive
nutrients for mom and baby. Looks a little
daunting at first, but once you saute it,
steam it, put it in soups, it's gonna be much
easier to eat and it's also delicious.
DADDY CLAY Beautiful.
MARY OLIVAR I recommend it for everyday for
mom.
DADDY CLAY In it goes.
DADDY CLAY Okay, what's going next into the
cart Mary?
MARY OLIVAR Salmon is one of my favorites.
Moms hear a lot about eating enough essential
fatty acids, particularly omega 3's and DHA,
all of which are found in salmon. Now, these
are the healthy fats that are essential for
baby's brain development and for the nervous
system.
DADDY CLAY Great. Good fats.
MARY OLIVAR Good fats. And salmon is a good
fish to eat because it is considered to be
a low mercury fish, so it's safe for moms
to eat two times a week.
DADDY CLAY I've heard there are some concerns.
Are there some kind of fish that moms aren't
supposed to eat? They're supposed to avoid
sushi?
MARY OLIVAR Well, that and the higher mercury
fishes. The FDA recommends that moms do not
eat shark, king mackerel, tile fish, and marlin.
And swordfish when they're pregnant. Lower
mercury fishes are fine though but also no
sushi for moms. You want to decrease your
risk of food-borne illness.
MARY OLIVAR I have to say, I saw your eyes
light up as we walked over here.
DADDY CLAY Yeah, you know I was a little bit
nervous for the kale, you know. But now in
this section, I'm feeling a little more comfortable.
MARY OLIVAR Well it's all about balance. And
moms definitely have an increased need for
protein. Great place to get it is meat. And
my favorite kind of meats for mom is the grass
fed. Grass fed beef and bison, or sometimes
we call it buffalo. Not only does grass fed
beef contain higher amounts of those great
essential fatty acids that we talked about
earlier, but it's also good sources of iron
and zinc, in addition to that great protein.
DADDY CLAY The color of it is just different.
The color of the fats. The color of the meat.
It's local. It's grass fed. I can't wait to
taste it.
MARY OLIVAR Studies have shown that certain
colors of beans actually have extremely high
levels of antioxidants. Again, for mom and
baby.
DADDY CLAY Okay, alright. So what kind of
beans should we be looking at?
MARY OLIVAR You can really play around. There's
a lot of variety. I like to soak them and
cook them myself. Feeling a little bit lazy,
canned beans are also an option. They're very
versatile. You can put them in all kinds of
dishes. If you're really lazy, you can eat
them right out of the can.
DADDY CLAY So here were are at the amazing
cheese section of Whole Foods. Man, there's
gotta be like a billion and a half cheeses
right here. Aren't there some kind of cheeses
though, that are not healthy for a pregnant
mom?
MARY OLIVAR Yes, pregnant moms are warned
to stay away from soft cheeses. And from cheeses
that are made from raw and unpasteurized milk
and aged for less than 60 days.
DADDY CLAY But otherwise, cheese is a good
thing?
MARY OLIVAR Cheese is a great thing. Because
moms are looking for the calcium, extra protein,
and it's delicious.
DADDY CLAY I agree with that. So we should
probably load up here. So specifically the
kind of cheeses you want to avoid. Is that
like your brie?
MARY OLIVAR Brie, camembert, the sort of really
soft gushy cheeses. Just to reduce the risk
of food-borne illnesses.
DADDY CLAY Yeah, I'm gonna really recommend
that you stay away from those because they're
gross.
MARY OLIVAR But any kind of cheese that is
firm to the touch is fine. So most of them
really.
DADDY CLAY You know what, this has been an
amazing tour. This cart is just full of beautiful,
healthy food items for a pregnant mom. I really
appreciate you giving us the tour around.
Thank you very much Mary.
MARY OLIVAR It's my pleasure.
DADDY CLAY We look forward to shopping here
again at Whole Foods in the future.
MARY OLIVAR Thanks for coming.
DADDY CLAY Well, that's all for us this week
here in The Lab. Thanks to our sponsors BabyBjorn
and of course, to the good people here at
Whole Foods for showing us around and picking
out some healthy food items for expecting
moms. Do me a favor. Go to DadLabs.com, friend
up Daddy Brad, and send him a message congratulating
him on the arrival of his third child, a little
baby boy. We'll see you next time here in
The Lab.